feat: add Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS blog (#3925)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/easy-langserve-apps-with-pulumi/index.md

---
title: "Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS"
date: 2024-02-13
meta_desc: "Create a LangServe app. With Pulumi, you can create, deploy, and manage Langserve apps using your favorite language."
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
- engin-diri

tags:
- ai
- langserve
- aws
---

> We all know, how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage any cloud infrastructure with Pulumi using your favorite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We all know how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage any cloud infrastructure with Pulumi using your favorite
```

add_routes(
    app,
    rag_chain,
    path="/rag-pinecone",
)
```

To deploy the chain with Pulumi, you can use the following command:

```shell
pulumi login # if you haven't logged in yet
pulumi config set open-api-key --secret # your openai api key
pulumi config set pinecone-api-key --secret # your pinecone api key
pulumi up
```

This will deploy create the AWS infrastructure, and the Pinecone index and then containerize and deploy the LangServe
app to AWS Fargate.

After a couple of minutes, you will see in the Pinecone console that the index has been created and the first documents
have been ingested from Wikipedia about Gandalf the Grey.

Here a screenshot of the Pinecone console:

<img src="pinecone-console.png" width="50%">

And if you want to test the LangServe app, you can use the playground UI, where you should be able to ask questions
about Gandalf the Grey and get answers based on the documents ingested into the Pinecone index.

<img src="langserve-pinecone.png" width="50%">

If you want to destroy the stack, you can use the following command:

```shell
pulumi destroy
```

All the resources will be deleted, including the Pinecone index.

## In Conclusion

> In this blog post, we showed you how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage LangServe apps with Pulumi. Using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we showed you how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage LangServe apps with Pulumi. The
```

> example projects from the Pulumi examples repository, is a creating starting point to build your own LLM-powered apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projects from the Pulumi examples repository provide an excellent starting point to build your own LLM-powered apps.
```

---
title: "Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS"
date: 2024-02-13
meta_desc: "Create a LangServe app. With Pulumi, you can create, deploy, and manage Langserve apps using your favorite language."
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
- engin-diri

tags:
- ai
- langserve
- aws
---

> ![Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS](./meta.png)

Reviewer 2: For future, please don't add these images here like this. If we want to have these images appear at the top of a blog post, we can do it for all posts in the template.

Author: @cnunciato should I remove it?

Reviewer 2: All good, I'll fix it up later -- going to add a timestamp to the post in a moment to make sure it sorts correctly once Luke's post goes out.

---
title: "Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS"
date: 2024-02-13
meta_desc: "Create a LangServe app. With Pulumi, you can create, deploy, and manage Langserve apps using your favorite language."
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
- engin-diri

tags:
- ai
- langserve
- aws
---

![Easy LangServe Apps with Pulumi on AWS](./meta.png)

> We all know, how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage any cloud infrastructure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We all know how easy it is to create, deploy, and manage any cloud infrastructure
```

with [Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/) using your favorite

> programming language. With the rise of artificial intelligence (AI) more and more developers are working on[LLM-powered

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
programming language. With the rise of artificial intelligence (AI) more and more developers are working on [LLM-powered
```

applications and services](https://www.thoughtworks.com/en-de/radar/techniques/llm-powered-autonomous-agents). And with

> this, the need for have the same ease of use for creating, deploying, and managing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
this, the need to have the same ease of use for creating, deploying, and managing
```

the infrastructure for these applications is growing.

In this blog post, we will show you how to this can be achieved with combining Pulumi
and [LangServe](https://python.langchain.com/docs/langserve).

## What is 🦜️🏓 LangServe?

[LangServe](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langserve) is part of the
awesome [🦜️🔗 LangChain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain)
framework. LangChain simplifies the process of creating generative AI application interfaces. Generative AI applications

> are powered by large language models (LLMs) and deliver an answer to your question (so-called prompts) in natural

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are powered by large language models (LLMs) and deliver an answer to your question (called prompts) in natural
```

language. This becomes even more interesting and useful once you integrate with your own private data and APIs. Some
popular use cases could be:

- Ask a question over your company's internal knowledge base
- Summarize a document
- Text extraction or data labeling

Building these types of integrations often needs to build pipelines (called typically chains), starting from the prompt
and enriching the prompt with your own data. Here is where LangChain comes into play.

> LangChain gives you all the abstractions you need to start building your own LLM app. It has many so-called

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
LangChain gives you all the abstractions you need to start building your own LLM app. It has many
```

repository.

The AWS architecture you will get out of the box will look like this:

![LangServe AWS Architecture](./architecture.png)

The Pulumi LangServe AWS architecture consists of the following components:

- Docker Image resource, to build and push the LangServe app to the AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR).
- AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) to expose the LangServe app to the public internet.
- AWS Fargate to run the LangServe app in a serverless manner.
- AWS Parameter Store to store the LangServe app's configuration.
- Some IAM roles and policies to allow the different components to interact with each other.
- A VPC, Subnets, and Security Groups to isolate the LangServe app from the rest of your infrastructure.

I will use the Python example (`aws-py-langserve`), but you can use any of the other supported language. The examples
are [available here](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/) and ready to
use as a base for our two demo projects.

### Create a Gandalf Chatbot App 🧙‍♂️

{{% notes type="info" %}}
Please make sure that you have `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable set with your OpenAI API key.
{{% /notes %}}

> Our first example, is a chatbot app with a twist. We will use LangChain to create chain that will answer questions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our first example is a chatbot app with a twist. We will use LangChain to create chain that will answer questions
```

```shell
pulumi login # if you haven't logged in yet
pulumi config set open-api-key --secret # your openai api key
pulumi up
```

This will first give you an outline of all the resources that will be created and then ask you to confirm the changes.
If you are happy with the changes, you can confirm them by typing `yes`.

After the deployment is finished, you will get the URL of the deployed LangServe app. You can use this URL to test the
app either with the `playground` or `curl`. Same as you did locally. The URL will look like this:

```shell
https://<your-alb-dns-name>/openai/playground
```

![Gandalf AWS](./gandalf-aws.png)

If you want to destroy the stack, you can use the following command:

```shell
pulumi destroy
```

The Pulumi CLI will ask you to confirm the changes, and if you are happy with the changes, you can confirm them by
typing `yes`.

### Create a Pinecone RAG App

{{% notes type="info" %}}
Please make sure that you have the following API keys set:

- `PINECONE_API_KEY` environment variable set with your Pinecone API key. You can get it from the Pinecone console.
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable set with your OpenAI API key.

{{% /notes %}}

> Our second example, will show you how to create a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) app

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our second example will show you how to create a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) app
```

with [Pinecone](https://pinecone.io/) vector

> databases. The clue of this example here is to show you, how easy you can extend the Pulumi LangServe example to deploy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
databases. The clue of this example here is to show you how easy you can extend the Pulumi LangServe example to deploy
```

                                                         "pulumi-application": pulumi_project,
                                                         "pulumi-environment": pulumi_stack,
                                                     })
# ... omitted code
```

And to the IAM policy in line `260`:

```python
# ... omitted code
"Resource": [langserve_ssm_parameter_arn, langserve_ssm_parameter_pinecone.arn, ],
# ... omitted code
```

Last but not least, change the Fargate task definition to use the Pinecone API key. Add a new element in line `338`:

```python
# ... omitted code
container_definitions = pulumi.Output.all(langserve_ecr_image.repo_digest, langserve_ssm_parameter.name,
                                          langserve_log_group.name, langserve_ssm_parameter_pinecone.name).apply(
    lambda repo_digest, langserve_ssm_parameter_name, langserve_log_group_name,
           langserve_ssm_parameter_pinecone_name: json.dumps([{
# ... omitted code
```

And add a new array element to line `349`:

```python
# ... omitted code
{
    "name": "PINECONE_API_KEY",
    "valueFrom": langserve_ssm_parameter_pinecone_name
}
# ... omitted code
```

> This should create your Pinecone index and update the Fargate task definition to use the Pinecone API key, what we are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This should create your Pinecone index and update the Fargate task definition to use the Pinecone API key; this is what we are
```

> going to need to use the Pinecone index in our LangServe app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
going to need in order to use the Pinecone index in our LangServe app.
```

> To use the Pinecond index in our LangServe app, we need first to add following packages to our LangChain app:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the Pinecone index in our LangServe app, we need first to add following packages to our LangChain app:
```

chain = chain.with_types(input_type=Question)
```

Head over to the `server.py` file and add the following code:

```python
from app.chain import chain as rag_chain

# ... rest of the code
add_routes(
    app,
    rag_chain,
    path="/rag-pinecone",
)
```

To deploy the chain with Pulumi, you can use the following command:

```shell
pulumi login # if you haven't logged in yet
pulumi config set open-api-key --secret # your openai api key
pulumi config set pinecone-api-key --secret # your pinecone api key
pulumi up
```

This will deploy create the AWS infrastructure, and the Pinecone index and then containerize and deploy the LangServe
app to AWS Fargate.

After a couple of minutes, you will see in the Pinecone console that the index has been created and the first documents
have been ingested from Wikipedia about Gandalf the Grey.

Here a screenshot of the Pinecone console:

![Pinecone Console](./pinecone-console.png)

And if you want to test the LangServe app, you can use the playground UI, where you should be able to ask questions
about Gandalf the Grey and get answers based on the documents ingested into the Pinecone index.

![LangServe Pinecone](./langserve-pinecone.png)

> If you want to destroy the stack, you can use the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you're ready to destroy the stack, you can use the following command:
```

```shell
pulumi destroy
```

The Pulumi CLI will ask you to confirm the changes, and if you are happy with the changes, you can confirm them by
typing `yes` and all the resources will be deleted, including the Pinecone index.

> All the resources will be deleted, including the Pinecone index.

Reviewer 3: Seems redundant with the previous paragraph?

Author: so true! 😅
